

This model is from the article:  
**An Integrated Mathematical Model of Thrombin-, Histamine-and VEGF-Mediated Signalling in Endothelial Permeability.**   
Wei X, Han B, Zhang J, Liu X, Tan C, Jiang Y, Low B, Tidor B, Chen Y. _BMC
Syst Biol._ 2011 Jul 15;5:112.
[21756365](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21756365) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Endothelial permeability is involved in injury, inflammation, diabetes and
cancer. It is partly regulated by the thrombin-, histamine-, and VEGF-mediated
myosin-light-chain (MLC) activation pathways. While these pathways have been
investigated, questions such as temporal effects and the dynamics of multi-
mediator regulation remain to be fully studied. Mathematical modeling of these
pathways facilitates such studies. Based on the published ordinary
differential equation models of the pathway components, we developed an
integrated model of thrombin-, histamine-, and VEGF-mediated MLC activation
pathways. RESULTS: Our model was validated against experimental data for
calcium release and thrombin-, histamine-, and VEGF-mediated MLC activation.
The simulated effects of PAR-1, Rho GTPase, ROCK, VEGF and VEGFR2 over-
expression on MLC activation, and the collective modulation by thrombin and
histamine are consistent with experimental findings. Our model was used to
predict enhanced MLC activation by CPI-17 over-expression and by synergistic
action of thrombin and VEGF at low mediator levels. These may have impact in
endothelial permeability and metastasis in cancer patients with blood
coagulation. CONCLUSION: Our model was validated against a number of
experimental findings and the observed synergistic effects of low
concentrations of thrombin and histamine in mediating the activation of MLC.
It can be used to predict the effects of altered pathway components,
collective actions of multiple mediators and the potential impact to various
diseases. Similar to the published models of other pathways, our model can
potentially be used to identify important disease genes through sensitivity
analysis of signalling components.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

